# Functionality Test


Functional Area| Test Name | Pre-requisites | Test Steps | Expected Results | Pass/Fail | Actual Result (if fail)
------------- | --------------| ---|---|---|---|---
Create username to use the site, Default to Guest if the user didn't provide a user name | Username creation | Username is required | <ol> <li>Enter Username or leave the filed blank</li> <li>Click on Create User Name </li></ol> | Username is accepted if its up to 3 characters or Guest is assigned as Username if blank | Pass | 
Click close button without entering username | Username Close button | Username is required | When requested for username, click the x close button | Confirmation box is displayed asking to confirm proceeding as guest if no username was entered, message is displayed if name entered is less than 3 characters or the username is accepted if 3 characters or more | Pass
Test user knowledge of football | Answer-details and guide | User answers a question and gets the answer details if desired | <ol><li>Click on any of the 4 options for the answer</li>. <li>Click Submit Answer button </li><li>Click View Answer Explanation</li> </ol> | The answer explanation will be displayed if the user has selected an answer and submitted. If answer was not submitted before clicking the view explanation, an alert message is displayed “Please submit your answer before checking the explanation” | Pass |
Be able to interact as amateur or a professional | Amateur or a professional interaction | Quiz level is required and determines whether the question is easy or difficult | <ol><li>Click Armature or Professional button</li> </ol> | The Guru will display a question from the selected quiz level database of questions at random. Questions are not repeated. A count of the number of questions per quiz level is displayed | Pass |
Be able to interact as amateur or a professional | Next question | Display next unique question | <ol><li>Click Next Question button</li>  </ol> | The Guru will display a confirmation window if the current question has not been answered before moving to next. User is permitted to skip a question but has to confirm to do so. If current  question was already answered , the next question is displayed from the currently selected Quiz Level. | Pass |
Be notified by sound and words when answers are submitted | Answer correctness notification | Notification of correctness of the selected answer option is required | <ol><li>Click an answer from the four displayed options.</li> <li>Click Submit Answer button.</li>  </ol> | The correct answers or wrong answers is increased by 1 depending on if the answer is correct or wrong. A sound is also played, sound for correct answer is different from the sound for the wrong answer | Pass |
Know the overall percentage score at the end of the quiz | Total Questions from each level | Notify the user on how many questions being answered from each level | <ol><li>Click Armature or Professional button</li> <li>Click an answer from the four displayed options.</li> <li>Click Submit Answer button.</li><li>Click Next Question button</li></ol> | Total Professional questions and total amateur questions are displayed <em>(necessary because user must answer at least 2 professional questions to pass the quiz)</em> | Pass |
Know the overall percentage score at the end of the quiz | Final score test | Be notified of the final score for the quiz | <ol><li>Click an answer from the four displayed options.</li> <li>Click Submit Answer button.</li><li>Continue until you have answered the total questions for each session or until the time permitted for each session has lapsed</li>  </ol> | The guru will automatically pop up the result of the quiz in a modal window with detailed statistics of the total questions answered correctly or wrongly, the question levels and overall percentage obtained. A clap sound is also played if the user attained the pass mark | Pass |


 [Back to README](../README.md)